.\"Copyright 2015 (c) EPFL
.TH EEGDEV-GTEC 5 2015 "EPFL" "EEGDEV library manual"
.SH NAME
eegdev-gtecnet - eegdev backend for g.tec g.NEEDaccess server software.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgtecnet\fP plugin implements the backend for the eegdev library for
the g.NEEDaccess server which is able to stream data from following g.tec EEG amplifiers: g.USBamp, g.HIamp and g.Nautilus.
\fBAttention:\fP so far only the g.HIamp is implemented.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
This plugin supports several options. The default values will be used
if neither a configuration file nor the configuration string (see
\fBegd_open\fP(3)) specifies the options.
.TP 
.B hostIP
Network IP of the g.NEEDaccess server. Default value: "192.168.1.1".
.TP 
.B hostport
Communication port on the g.NEEDaccess server. Default value: "50223".
.TP 
.B localIP
Network IP of the local computer. Default value: "192.168.1.10".
.TP 
.B localport
Communication port on the g.NEEDaccess server. Make sure that the port is open -> check iptables. Default value: "50220".
.TP
.B samplerate
Desired sampling frequency used to acquire the data. Supported sampling rates are:

g.USBamp [32;64;128;256;512;600;1200;2400;4800;9600;19200;38400] 
.br
g.HIamp [256;512;600;1200;2400;4800;9600;19200;38400]
.br
g.Nautilus [256;512]

Default value: "512".
.TP
.B bandpass
Filter ID of desired hardware bandpass filter. \fBAttention:\fP Filter ID depends on cutoff frequencies, sampling rate and filter order. Please use the 
table provided at /mnt/shared/software/third/gtec/g.NEEDaccess_DataServer/g.NEEDaccess - Device Filter Lists.xlsx. The option "no filtering" is encoded by the ID "-1". Default value: "32" (= 512 Hz -> 0.01 - 100 Hz).
.TP
.B notch
Filter ID of desired hardware bandpass filter. \fBAttention:\fP Filter ID depends on central frequency, sampling rate and filter order. Please use the 
table provided at /mnt/shared/software/third/gtec/g.NEEDaccess_DataServer/g.NEEDaccess - Device Filter Lists.xlsx. The option "no filtering" is encoded by the ID "-1". Default value: "4" (= 512 Hz -> 48 - 52 Hz).
.TP
.B usedefmap
Boolean flag determining whether the default (most common) CNBI electrode configurations should be used for each device. "1" (true) enforces default maps (per CNBI conventions) and "0" labels the channels arithmetically (1:N). This option only affects the channel labels as appearing in the eegview scope and elsewhere. Default value: "1" (use default CNBI 10-20 configurations).


.SH FILES
.IP "/etc/eegdev/eegdev.conf" 4
.PD
Shared configuration file.
.IP "/etc/eegdev/gtecnet.conf" 4
.PD
Configuration file loaded when the \fBgtecnet\fP plugin is used. The
settings specified here overrides the settings in the shared configuration
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR egd_open (3),
.BR eegdev-options (5)

