.\"Copyright 2012 (c) EPFL
.TH EEGDEV-GTEC 5 2012 "EPFL" "EEGDEV library manual"
.SH NAME
eegdev-gtec - eegdev backend for gTec gUSBamp EEG amplifier.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgtec\fP plugin implements the backend for the eegdev library for
the gUSBamp EEG amplifier hardware from gTec.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
This plugin supports several options. The default value will be used
if none of the configuration files nor the configuration string (see
\fBegd_open\fP(3)) specify the option.
.TP
.B samplerate
Desired sampling frequency used to acquire the data. Default value: "512".
.TP
.B lowpass
Cutoff frequency of the desired lowpass used by the system. \fB0\fP or
\fBnone\fP means no lowpass filter at all. Default value: 0.4*samplerate.
.TP
.B highpass
Cutoff frequency of the desired highpass used by the system. \fB0\fP or
\fBnone\fP means no highpass filter at all. Default value: "0.1".
.TP
.B notch
Central frequency of the desired notch filter used by the system. \fB0\fP or
\fBnone\fP means no notch filter at all. Default value: "50".
.TP
.B deviceid
Specify the serial number of the gTec system that should be opened. If
\fBany\fP is specified, the first gTec system (in the alphabetical order of
serial numbers) that is connected and unused will be used. You can use
this option to setup a chain of synchronized gTec system (master/slave.
mode). In order to do that, separate the serial number by '+' sign. In that
case, the first system specified will be the master and the others will be
the slaves (make sure the synchronization cable is plugged between each of
them). \fBany\fP be used as well in a chain of systems. The resulting chain
will appear as one eegdev device with more channels. Default value: "any".
.SH FILES
.IP "/etc/eegdev/eegdev.conf" 4
.PD
Shared configuration file.
.IP "/etc/eegdev/gtec.conf" 4
.PD
Configuration file loaded when the \fBgtec\fP plugin is used. The
settings specified here overrides the settings in the shared configuration
file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR egd_open (3),
.BR eegdev-options (5)

