.\"Copyright 2011 (c) EPFL
.TH EEGDEV-OPEN-OPTIONS 5 2011 "EPFL" "EEGDEV library manual"
.SH NAME
eegdev-open-options - Device configuration format specification
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The device configuration string should follow the syntax:
.LP
.ce
device[[|option1|value1]...[|optionN|valueN]]
.LP
If the specified device does not support a certain pair of option|value,
this will be silently ignored by the opening function.
.SS "Recognized devices"
Default value of the supported options are specified within parenthesis:
.TP
.B biosemi
Opens a Biosemi ActiveTwo system. Supports \fBnumch\fP(64) option.
.TP
.B gtec
Opens a gTec gUSBamp system. Supports \fBsamplerate\fP(512),
\fBlowpass\fP(0.1), \fBhighpass\fP(0.4*samplerate), \fBnotch\fP(50),
\fBdeviceid\fP(any)
.TP
.B neurosky
Opens a neurosky system. Supports \fBpath\fP(/dev/rfcomm0) option 
.TP
.B datafile
Opens a fake EEG system that streams data from a data file. Supports
\fBpath\fP(test.bdf) option
.TP
.B any
Opens the first connected device whose type is one of the following
(in the order): \fBbiosemi\fP, \fBgtec\fP, \fBdatafile\fP
.LP
.SS "Recognized options"
Here the list of options recognised by the library and their explanation:
.TP
.B path
Specifies the path to the device that should be used.
.TP
.B numch
Number of channel that should be supported by the BIOSEMI system. Accepted
values are \fB32\fP, \fB64\fP, \fB128\fP or \fB256\fP. Beware that the value
can be set superior to the actual number of ADC subsystem embedded into the
acquisition hardware. If it is the case, the additional channel will return
always 0.
.TP
.B samplerate
Desired sampling frequency used to acquire the data
.TP
.B lowpass
Cutoff frequency of the desired lowpass used by the system. \fB0\fP or
\fBnone\fP means no lowpass filter at all.
.TP
.B highpass
Cutoff frequency of the desired highpass used by the system. \fB0\fP or
\fBnone\fP means no highpass filter at all.
.TP
.B notch
Central frequency of the desired notch filter used by the system. \fB0\fP or
\fBnone\fP means no notch filter at all.
.TP
.B deviceid
Specify the serial number of the gTec system that should be opened. If
\fBany\fP is specified, the first gTec system (in the alphabetical order of
serial numbers) that is connected and unused will be used. You can use
this option to setup a chain of synchronized gTec system (master/slave.
mode). In order to do that, separate the serial number by '+' sign. In that
case, the first system specified will be the master and the others will be
the slaves (make sure the synchronization cable is plugged between each of
them). \fBany\fP be used as well in a chain of systems. The resulting chain
will appear as one eegdev device with more channels (see examples).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Device sourcing its data from the GDF file located at "/home/user/data.gdf":
.ce
datafile|path|/home/user/data.gdf
.LP
Biosemi device configured to use 32 electrodes:
.ce
biosemi|numch|32
.LP
gTec system consisting in a chain of 2 systems (the first 2 available)
with a notch filter at 60Hz without lowpass or highpass sampling at 512Hz 
(default sampling rate):
.ce
gtec|notch|60|lowpass|none|highpass|none|deviceid|any+any
.LP
Any supported type of device but should have the serial number UB-2009.10.06
if it is a gTec system:
.ce
any|deviceid|UB-2009.10.06
