\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@include version.texi
@c %**start of header
@setfilename eegdev.info
@settitle eegdev Manual @value{VERSION}
@c %**end of header

@syncodeindex fn cp
@copying
This is the manual of the eegdev library.

Copyright © 2012 Nicolas Bourdaud <@email{nicolas.bourdaud@@gmail.com}>.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title eegdev Manual @value{VERSION}
@author Nicolas Bourdaud <@email{nicolas.bourdaud@@gmail.com}>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top eegdev

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::         Overview of the library

* Library Usage::	This chapter describes the eegdev library
                       	from the library user point of view.
* Plugin interface::	This chapter describes the interface provided to a
			backend plugin.
* Index::            	Complete index.
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@section Motivation
While reviewing the software solution available to the
neuroscience/neuroengineering and more specifically in the Brain-Computer
Interface (BCI) community, I have realized a real lack of interoperable
tools for signal acquisition. Too many frameworks reimplement the support
for the same hardware. All of this also means less tested acquisition code
(which is a critical part). Also I have seen sometime some device supported
by a framework and not by other: why?

The community should stop wasting resource through duplicated work. This is
how I decided to start designing the eegdev library with the following
design criteria: extensible, device agnostic, easy to use, efficient,
cross-platform and few dependencies.

@section Design
The design of the library tries to follow the Unix design: do only one thing
and do it well. Following this principle, the library's role is solely to
setup and provides the acquisition signal in a device independent manner.
The rest (subject metadata, file recording, downsampling...) is out of the
scope of eegdev.

The design is very modular: support for a particular device is achieved by
writing a small plugin, while many of the common functionalities (data
casting, channel selection, providing metadata, error reporting...) are
already handled by the core library. 


@node Library Usage
@chapter Library Usage
@cindex chapter, usage

This chapter describes the eegdev library from the library user point of
view. It contains tutorial how to use it. It is worth to note that the
usage of the functions is not fully described since it is not the purpose of
the this document. Please refers to the corresponding manpages to have a
detailed description of the function usage.

@section Overview
The whole interaction with an eegdev device is done through an handle
obtained when the device is opened and made invalid when it is closed. As
such, most of functions of API are reentrant, making eegdev suitable to be
used in a multithread programming model. The few functions that are not
reentrant are completely thread-safe.

The typical session with a device can be summarized by the following
points:
@enumerate
@item handle creation (use of @code{egd_open})
@item information gathering (@code{egd_channel_info}, @code{egd_get_numch}
and @code{egd_get_cap}).
@item data retrieval configuration (@code{egd_acq_setup})
@item acquisition start (@code{egd_start_acq})
@item getting iteratively the acquired data (@code{egd_get_data} and
@code{egd_get_available})
@item acquisition stop (@code{egd_stop_acq})
@item handle creation (@code{egd_destroy})
@end enumerate

@section Opening a device
The first step to communicate with a device is to open a connection to it.
This is achieved by a call to the function @code{egd_open} which will return
a handle to the device in case of success or @code{NULL} otherwise.

@deftypefun @code{struct eegdev*} egd_open (const char* @var{devstring})
The string argument of the function allows to specify a device and
optionally specify certain aspects of its configuration. The string should
respect the following format:
@center @var{devtype}|@var{optname1}|@var{value1}|@var{optname2}|@var{value2}...
The first part specifies the type of device that must be opened. It must be
the name of one of the backend plugin available on the system (minus the
extension of the module name) or @code{any} which means that the first
supported and available device must be opened. The second part of the string
format corresponds to a list (interpreted from left to right) of pairs of
option name and value. If a device does not support a specific option, the
pair will be silently ignored. It is perfectly valid to supply a @code{NULL}
pointer as argument which is equivalent to provided the string @code{"any"}.
The first available device will be opened with the default values.
@end deftypefun

An example of usage of @code{egd_open} can be found in the following example
which opens an device source its signal from the file "past-recording.gdf":
@cartouche
@verbatim
struct eegdev* dev = egd_open("datafile|path|past-recording.gdf");
if (!dev) {
        perror("eegdev failed to open the device");
        /* insert code to fail gracefully...  */
}
/* do something with dev...*/
@end verbatim
@end cartouche

Please note that opening a device may or may not start internally some kind
of continuous communication with the hardware (like acquisition). This
depends on the backend implementation. The library user do not need to
bother about the implementation details. It just means that at the moment
that the call to @code{egd_open}, depending on the backend plugin, the
device cables may be expected to be already connected and device switched
on.

@section Gathering device information
A user of the eegdev library should not rely on the argument passed to
@code{egd_open} to guess the capabilities of a device: first the
configuration can be altered by different mechanism (plugin default,
configuration files, configuration string...) which makes the configuration
prediction not very robust. Second future releases of some backends might
make configurable certain aspects of the device which are currently not
configurable (for example channel labels).

As a result, a proper use of the library must be based on information
retrieval function which will inform the user about the actual capability of
the device and its specificities. To address this issue, the library
provides a framework consisting basically in 3 groups functions addressing
the problems of:
@itemize
@item presenting the device capabilities (@code{egd_get_cap} and
@code{egd_get_numch})
@item presenting the channel metadata (@code{egd_channel_info})
@item describing sensor types (@code{egd_sensor_name} and @code{egd_sensor_type})
@end itemize

@subsection Naming a sensor type
eegdev is able to serve an arbitrary number of different sensor types. For
the core library a sensor type has no particular meaning and does not
behave differently depending the sensor type. However it is an information
propagated from the device backend to be used/interpreted by the library
user. To handle efficiently the sensor type, eegdev describe them by an
integer ID, which associated at the first evocation of the sensor type
(either at the device init or when the user request a type). The library
maintains the correspondence table of a type name and its ID and can be
queried by the following functions:

@deftypefun int egd_sensor_type (const char* @var{sname})
This function returns the ID from a sensor type name. This function
also allocates a new sensor type ID if it is not previously known. Note that
the ID is maintained during the whole life time of a process, i.e. if a type
ID is once returned for a certain name, any subsequent call to
@code{egd_sensor_type} with the same name will always return the same ID
@footnote{This is true only within a process. If a sensor type must be
transmitted through an Inter-Process-Communication (IPC) mechanism, the
sensor name must be used or a translation table must be maintained.}.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun @code{const char*} egd_sensor_name (int @var{stype})
This function is the reverse operation of @code{egd_sensor_type}. It queries
the name of a sensor type already declared.
@end deftypefun

@subsection Querying the device capabilities
From a device to another (or backend implementation), the capabilities can
be quite different. To cope this differences, a facility to query a set of
predefined capabilities type is provided. This comprises the
device type, the device identifier, the sampling frequency, the supported
sensor types, the number of channels per sensor type, etc...

@deftypefun int egd_get_cap (struct eegdev* @var{dev}, int @var{cap}, ...)
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun int egd_get_numch (struct eegdev* @var{dev}, int @var{stype})
@end deftypefun

@cartouche
@verbatim
/* Assume dev has been initialized earlier*/
const char* device_type;
int sampling_rate, num_eeg;

egd_get_cap(dev, EGD_CAP_FS, &samplingrate);
egd_get_cap(dev, EGD_CAP_DEVTYPE, &device_type);
num_eeg = egd_get_numch(dev, egd_sensor_type("eeg"));

printf("The device use a %s backend and samples %i EEG channels at %i Hz\n",
       device_type, num_eeg, sampling_rate);
@end verbatim
@end cartouche

@subsection Obtaining the channel information
The information (label, Transducer type, unit...) of each channel can be
gathered from an opened device. Based on it, the library user can decide
the channels he want to record and know how to interpret, convert and store
the data.
@deftypefun int egd_channel_info (const struct eegdev* @var{dev}, @
  int @var{stype}, unsigned int @var{index}, int @var{fieldtype}, @dots{})
@end deftypefun

@section Acquisition setup
A piece of information must absolutely be provided prior to the acquisition
which constitutes the acquisition setup: the channels that must returned
when gathering the sampled data and in which format this data must be
returned.

@deftypefun int egd_acq_setup (const struct eegdev* @var{dev}, @
  unsigned int @var{narr}, const size_t @var{strides}, @
  unsigned int @var{ngrp}, const struct grpconf *@var{grp})
@end deftypefun

@section Acquisition loop
In order to gather sampled data during the acquisition, the acquisition must
be started. From the moment it is started, sampled data is buffered in a
regular manner. It is then the responsibility of the library user to
retrieves the buffered data regularly in order to avoid a buffer overflow.

This data buffering mechanism allows to ensure that from the acquisition
start, no acquired data will ever be dropped unless the buffer is full. In
the latter case, the user is ensured to be informed that some data had to be
dropped. No acquired data can possibly have been dropped prior to this
notification.
@deftypefun int egd_start (struct eegdev* @var{dev})
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun int egd_stop (struct eegdev* @var{dev})
@end deftypefun

As explained in the previous section, when retrieving the data from buffer
using @code{egd_get_data}, the data is formatted according to the
acquisition setup and will fill the arrays provided by the user. Since the
number of samples retrieved by a call to this function is controlled
by an input parameter, it is the responsibility of the user to allocate the
buffers large enough to contain the requested data.

It is also worth noting that during acquisition, @code{egd_get_data} will
block until all requested data or until an error occurred. If it is necessary
to know the number of buffered samples available (for example to interleave
the data retrieval with a message pump), the function
@code{egd_get_available} can be used.
@deftypefun ssize_t egd_get_available(struct eegdev* @var{dev})
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun ssize_t egd_get_data (struct eegdev* @var{dev}, @
  size_t @var{ns}, @dots{})
@end deftypefun

@section Closing a device
When the data acquired by a device is not needed any longer, it is the
responsibility of the user to close the device with the @code{egd_close}
function. Failing to do so may leave allocated resources and keep device
unavailable to other user/program for no reason.
@deftypefun int egd_close (struct eegdev* @var{dev})
@end deftypefun

@node Plugin interface
@chapter Plugin interface
@cindex chapter, plugin API

@appendix Supported options by plugins
@section biosemi
@section gtec
@section datafile
@section tobiia


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
